All right, let's move on.
Let's install some plugins, okay?
So let's start making it better.
So you have to have a plug in manager,
right?
That's how VS code really works
underneath the hood is that,
likely a lot of the plugins
you're installing are just GitHub
projects in which
are shaped a certain way.
Such that VS Code knows how to download
them, put them in a special spot, and
then run some sort of source on it that
will make run really quickly and smoothly,
right?
So that's kind of how plugins work.
That's same thing here with Vim,
it's just the best way to do that.
And the nice part is that,
the demo that we've been kind of lightly
writing is also the same code
that is used to make plugins.
If you're using Neovim you can use Lua,
which Lua is that sweet Brazilian
language which means moon.
But it has one based indexing that
kind of hurts a little bit, and
it does have a type
script to Lua converter.
So you can have types and still have
a sweet native plugin for Neovim.
I haven't played with it yet,
I'm gonna be playing with it here shortly,
very excited about it.
I want to see how it goes.
So, before we can do anything,
we have to get the plugin manager, right?
So let's follow this link right here,
that says plug if you don't have
that link right in front of you.
Go to your, that's so bright sorry
everybody, go to your search bar
just type in Vim plug and
there you go top one it's by June gunn.
Very cool name I might be
saying his name wrong but
I just love the idea of condom June gunn,
and there you go.
So you're gonna go through here you can
see all the different installing here.
Let me make it a lot bigger so
we can see it,
it'll be a nice plugin manager that
can download all sorts of plugins.
The best part about plugins is that you
will just end up using GitHub for it.
You'll just simply put the two words in
GitHub my name plus whatever plugin or
whoever.
So this one's June gunn Vin plugin,
if this was something to install,
we will just simply use that and
put that in there, it's very nice.
So let's start first with the process
of getting the plug in manager.
We have to first download plug.vim,
now it has a bunch of options for
you to follow you can follow any of them.
And if you're in Neovim you
can still use the Vim1 here,
I'm gonna use the Vim 1 myself right now.
I'm gonna take this random script and
I'm gonna go save it and
Vim is gonna execute it for me.
Fantastic, that's like the fifth time I
made the joke, it's not gonna get onto me,
anyway I'm gonna take it, I'm gonna copy
and paste it, I'm gonna press Enter,
it's gonna go, it's gonna download it.
And now the next time I start Vim
because it's in a special spot,
it's going to source it and
have it ready for us to be able to run.
We'll kind of go over what the special
spot means, but until then,
just keep that in mind.
There's a certain set of
spots you can have and
a certain shape of your directories, it'll
start auto sourcing all of your stuff.
All right, so we have that downloaded,
let's find a plugin to install.
So we'll go down a little
bit further first, and
we're gonna make sure we have this
ready for us to cut and paste, okay?
We can actually do this right now in fact,
so let's go here and
we have to do this first line.
And so this first line will be dependent
on where you install the script.
I did mine, right,
I'm gonna use the dot vim plugin folder,
I'm gonna copy that,
I'm gonna go back over to my terminal.
I'm gonna edit my vim RC, I prefer to
put it right after the sets is generally
where I have everything,
I'm gonna paste it in.
And then I'm gonna do the end part,
which means I will go over to N or begin
typing end and then delete everything
inside of there, so there we go.
We have plug begin where it will save all
the plugins at, and plug end to say okay,
the plugin manager is done,
go do the thing you're supposed to go do,
and there we go.
So now we're ready for plugins.
Hopefully everyone was able to get
the June gunn plugin for vim plug,
I showed you how to do it.
Awesome, I'm gonna
assume everyone's ready.
So this is the part with Windows where I
wasn't sure how smooth it was gonna go,
cuz I know that Windows is not Ubuntu,
and I don't Know how it works.
I know that the slashes are different,
at that point you've confused me,
I don't really know what's happening.
So let's find a plugin, I wanna fuzzy find
out that's gonna work for everybody here.
So let's use fzf, if you haven't
heard of fzf, also so bright sorry.
It is a fuzzy finder plugin, so
I'm gonna type in fzf vim_plugin,
I'm gonna hit Enter, and look at that.
My goodness,
my cursors already ready to click it, and
it's June gunn again, my goodness.
It's like this person
makes a bunch of plugins.
So I'm gonna click this,
we're gonna go to the GitHub page.
I'm gonna scroll down, I'm gonna check
the installation instructions just in
case it's something I don't expect.
Okay, look at that, it's actually
is something I didn't expect.
It requires two plugins,
junegunn/fzf and junegunn/fzf.vim.
So obviously, fzf/vim must be
the simple wrapper around fzf.
If you don't know what fzf is,
it's pretty fantastic,
it allows you to pipe any list into it,
and then do a fuzzy find over it.
It's pretty darn fast, it's pretty nice.
So what I'm gonna do is,
I'm gonna highlight these two items.
I'm going to copy it and
jump back in here,
I'm gonna use that Shift+O to go
right into where I want it to be.
I'm gonna use Ctrl+Shift+V,
cuz I'm pasting in a terminal.
Paste those two in I'm going to save it,
and then I'm gonna use space Enter.
I've now sourced my vim RC,
so at this point,
we're already to do something with it,
but what do we do?
You can't do anything yet, cuz you
actually haven't got the plugins yet.
So what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna go
down here and I'm gonna type in PL, and
I'm going to hit Ctrl+D.
Now notice we have a set of new
commands in here, we have Plug,
PlugClean, PlugDiff, PlugInstall.
PlugInstall sounds about right,
let's give it a shot.
I'm gonna type in PlugInstall,
hit tab to auto
complete the rest of the characters hit
Enter, and there it is, fzf and fzf.vim.
If I were to take these two URLs right
here, or these two words right here
effectively and paste into GitHub,
these would each be repos.
They're just repos set up in
a specific way to work with Vim.
Fantastic, we now have it, we are ready.
So we can use Ctrl+Wl to jump
over to go into that one or
we could have stayed in this and
use :q and quit that window.
Now we have this we're ready to go,
this is fantastic, so
we should be able to
do some fuzzy finding.
But what do we do?
Well, as they always say to
me read the friendly manual.
So we're gonna go over to the friendly
manual and notice right here, awesome.
So if I do colon files,
it will return all the files.
If I do Gfiles, it will return all the Git
files, it has a bunch of different other
options which we can go over,
but right now let's try g files.
So if you're inside a project that
has source control, it should work.
Now remember, when I opened vim,
I opened vim from the vim nav playground,
but I directed it somewhere else.
So that means when I do Gfiles,
it'll actually use my vim nav playground
because that is where it was opened up.
That is the folder that
it was as my project.
So, now I can fuzzy find and
find something.
So if I wanted to open up twitch, I can
see there's twitch.c twitch.h let's do
twitch.c, my goodness,
we're right back to where we started.
Look at how beautiful that is,
we are now fuzzy finding.
This is like 10 times better but
hey, like my Ctrl+P doesn't work.
Why doesn't it work?
Come on, you're paying attention,
you know better than that,
you've got to set up a remap.
So let's go in here,
let's open up our config,
let's go down to the bottom, let's
highlight, which one do we want to do?
Let's highlight this one, why not?
It's confusing,
you can delete the rest of the line,
I'm gonna show you a super cool shortcut,
are you ready for this?
Shift+D, look at that it deletes
everything from your cursor all the way to
the end of that line.
It's fantastic,
D is one of my favorite disc.
So then I'm going to hit Shift+A,
it's gonna go right into place and
I'm gonna go Ctrl+P, remember you
do the (C) your C look like this.
And then of course p for
Ctrl+P there we go, and
then do a space I'm gonna go Gfiles.
And don't forget this one trick that makes
doctors very angry CR, carriage return.
You can't forget that because if
you don't do that what happens,
it just typed the command but
does not press enter for you.
So there we go, Ctrl+P,
will now execute get files.
That's awesome, but if you're not in
a Git repo, this command won't work.
So you may wanna have a backup command
that will work in this situation.
And so what I actually have as a backup
command, is I'll jump into here and
I'll have project files and
I'll just have something like this.
So that way I have both Git files and
project files, so just in case I'm
not in a repo, I can still fuzzy search
over the folder, make sense, right?
I think that that is a fairly good
practice to do, so there we go.
So now, I just got to source it,
what do we do to source it?
No, no, no, don't you say source
percent sign space Enter, right?
Awesome, we've now just sourced it,
we're using our shortcuts vim is our way
we're doing things the way we like it.
Maybe your shortcuts different than mine,
perfectly fine, awesome.
And now when I press Ctrl+ P, beautiful.
If I had a bunch of files that weren't
source controlled, I could do space PF.
Yes look at that I am fuzzy finding
like a madman at this point.
I can kkk, I can also do, there we go, you
can type in any letters you want bbbbb,
it just works Ctrl+P will go
backwards in the list control and
we'll go forth in the list.
Remember I told you Ctrl+P as an important
habit to get into cuz by default,
it works in every list.
It's just beautiful, it doesn't work in
quick fix list if I remember correctly,
but we're gonna pretend like it does.
All right, so you can use Ctrl+C
to just close it down escape,
you got it, it just works,
this is beautiful.
Hopefully everyone was able to get the vim
plugin to be installed, it's not too hard.
One you need a plugin
manager I choose vim plug,
there are other plugin managers vim
even has its own default plugin manager.
I just simply use vim plug
cuz it's the easiest for
me to either find the plugins you want,
they're almost always on GitHub.
You provide the GitHub address minus
github.com, it just automatically
downloads them for you,
it sources them when you call plug end.
This is a special function, all special
functions with the hashtag human
are special functions
are called autoload functions.
You don't even have to worry about what
they mean or why they are like that.
But you just know that these are two
special functions you have to call.
I wanna begin, I wanna end, and
that's what it's gonna do, so awesome.